oh man five minutes to go the most
important moment in your career is
coming
you're sweating buckets in that tux but
it's too late to change now
you're at an international technology
conference along with the world's most
famous scientists
engineers programmers economists and a
whole bunch of other important people
artificial intelligence developers have
made a discovery that could change the
world forever
and in four minutes there will be a
public demonstration of this
world-changing revelation
you're here as a translator you need to
translate all the sciency stuff into
several languages
you've loved learning languages your
whole life first
it was foreign films and tv series with
subtitles
books comics then you started to study
more seriously
your parents took you all over the world
to absorb different world cultures
and when you found out there are about 7
000 languages on our planet
you decided to spend your life learning
them well
some of them prestigious universities
post grads
living in different countries studying
the history of ancient languages
all this made you the best translator
and language expert in the world
and now you're a little nervous as you
have to translate the conference into
seven different languages
the event begins scientists start to
talk about the evolution of ai
no it's not going to take over the
planet on the contrary
it's going to make people's lives easier
hmm
you have a bad feeling about this for
some reason
the main developer leaks the big news a
new language has been created for the
whole world to use
the language is simple to learn the ai
translation algorithm makes it easy to
remember
words grammar basically there will be no
more communication problems anymore
to make learning it even easier
scientists have created an app that can
translate
any kind of speech into the new language
context meaning
sarcasm irony it can now all be
translated into ucl
universal common language the world's
population will be united like never
before that's when you realize that the
biggest moment of your career
is also the beginning of its destruction
who's going to need a translator if
everybody speaks the same language
oh goody over the next 20 years
the planet moves to speaking the common
language
every gadget has the ucl app the
language is taught in schools and
institutes
big companies and corporations introduce
mandatory language courses for their
employees
ai translates thousands of books a day
into ucl
in movies and tv only actors who speak
ucl
get the big awards people who just
couldn't learn a foreign language before
have no problem with ucl the learning
process is easy and fun
plus it's a requirement for literally
everything
so countries start canceling their visa
programs
borders start getting erased all over
the world
the number of conflicts is decreasing
because now people can understand each
other much better
operating systems video games tech
articles
songs jokes science stuff you name it
are all created
in the new world language you can call
anyone on the other side of the planet
tell them something and listen to their
interesting stories
you can go on a trip around the world
and not be afraid you'll accidentally
order 17 squirrels for breakfast
because you mixed up one little word
movie company stop
dubbing movies and no more subtitles
the world has become more open air
ticket prices are way down
and tourism in studying and working
abroad is booming
every year more and more people renounce
their citizenship
and recognize themselves as citizens of
the world
science is developing faster than ever
before because scientists from
all over the world can finally work
together
and studying foreign languages a thing
of the past
okay it seems like the world's become a
better place
but ucl also has a dark side
translators and language professors lose
their jobs
language schools get closed around the
planet those dubbing actors also lose
their jobs
you and many other people are opposed to
the new language
you set about trying to prove that
sooner or later
ucl will cause a catastrophe
while the whole world communicates in
the new language scientists
finish their first multi-country study
of the human mind
the number of neural connections so the
thoughts and biological processes in the
brain
have decreased scientists studied
hundreds of
thousands of people in three groups
multi-language speakers
one language speakers and those who were
born in the new world and only speak ucl
studies show that the human brains stop
functioning as it did before
people used to try to understand foreign
languages speak them and translate them
training their minds now the parts of
the brain that are responsible for this
have stopped working even if you've
never learned a foreign language
you still used to see and hear words
that you didn't understand
and your brain at least tried to process
the information
now our brains are relaxed
some say if there are no other languages
what difference does it make
who cares about a relaxed brain but
that's not the end of it
the human brain has become worse at
analyzing information
remembering and finding clever ways out
of difficult situations
it's hard for people to learn new
knowledge people's vocabulary ends up
becoming smaller and smaller
sometimes people can't even say what's
on their mind
the average iq begins to dip
learning the languages of the past is
becoming almost impossible
some are worried about the future people
may forget their history changes in the
human brain are one thing
but forgetting our history could be
really dangerous
every language is linked to its
geography and history
but most importantly language brings
cultural diversity in your daily
life for example there are many more
words to describe the cold and coal
countries
more shades of green in tropical
countries you get the picture
with ucl these little things that make
cultures different
just sort of vanish most people now like
the same music
watch the same movies people start to
lose interest in everything
imagine you saved up money for six
months to fly to the other side of the
world
you arrive there and everyone talks and
acts just like your neighbors back home
they even watch the same shows and
follow the same influencers as you
from now on you'll never be able to
determine where a person grew up by
their accent
people talk with the same intonation use
the same sentence structure in words
communication becomes boring to better
express your emotions
you use gestures and body language two
people
arguing starts to look a lot like two
crazy people
quivering twitching waving but the worst
thing
is that people start to lose their sense
of humor
because there's less vocabulary there's
less thought
it's getting hard to think let alone
talk dreams get
super boring and poetry and song lyrics
all start to sound the same yeah
life's become much easier but so what
we can easily understand each other but
at the same time
we've forgotten how exciting it can be
to learn something new
ai keeps trying to simplify ucl and
every year it gets easier and easier
scientists have found that at this rate
people will communicate using only
sounds in a few decades
nobody will be able to clearly express
their thoughts or explain their actions
the global understanding everyone has is
soon gonna change to epic
misunderstanding
people will simply forget how to
communicate their thoughts
you've had a rough time since you lost
your job as a translator
you've spent nearly every waking moment
trying to prove that languages are
necessary
fortunately you and other translators
and professors
make it happen people will never stop
using ucl
but interest in learning old languages
reappears
learning an old language becomes the hot
new thing
there are more language schools than
ever before
there are only a few people left on the
planet who still remember multiple
old languages you and other translators
get rich learning languages is now the
most popular hobby
which perfectly develops your mental
abilities
if it used to be cool to have an
expensive car a stacked bank account
and a beautiful house now the ability to
speak
two languages is considered a sign of
success
film companies are making movies writers
are writing books
artists are creating songs all in
different languages again
the world goes back to being diverse
interesting
and fun merci beaucoup